Currently in our application we are able to secure some of the functionality of this simple block by
requiring users to authenticate.
For example you can see now that I am not authenticated because I see both the register and logging
buttons and when I go to the list of blog posts I see the edit and delete button.
But when I pressed them I am being redirected to the logging page.
So that's well the first level of securing your application that you need to have an account to perform
a certain action.
But then if I authenticate I am able to edit those blog posts and actually I can edit all of them and
also I can delete every single blog post and in the future when we will be adding comments.
I would also be able at least at this stage to edit and delete comments of all the users.
Which probably doesn't make sense in the real world because basically whoever will register on your
application especially with the open registration like we have that basically you need to provide some
username password and you can do anything.
So this is where there is another level in the security of your application called How to reception
and what that means is you are telling the application if certain user can perform a specific action.
So the concept is actually pretty simple.
So what we will do in this lecture is we will define certain authorisation rules that for example users
that haven't created a particular blog post won't be able to edit and delete those blog posts.
But first before we do that since we already have our user I.D. of the blog post out or on the blog
post instance we can display who has created a particular blog post.
So let's go to the Visual Studio code and modify our application
so let's find our views for the posts which can be find in found inside the resources folder and open
the index and show template.
So what we already have inside the show template where where we display on one single blog post is we
have this paragraph when we display when this was added so we will do the same with the index template
so let's copy this code and we might place it below the title maybe so we'll display that The Post was
are that and the date when it was added using the DB for humans.
So it will show a nice text like it was added three minutes ago but now we can also use our assigned
user to display Q It was added by so we can do that by and we can use post user name
and additionally we can add some class like text muted.
Now let's save the changes and refresh this page
apparently.
I've used the wrong field name so let's find a blog post
Yeah.
So the problem is that we actually haven't defined our relation that lava can understand for the user.
So we only generated a migration that are that user I.D. to the blog post so we will also have to add
a mental note for this relation.
So this would be public function.
User and we'll return this belongs to up user.
And this is because the blog post itself contains are user I.D. field and we can also do that.
On the other side inside the user will define public function blog posts and will return.
This has many and this will relate to up
blog post class.
So this is a one to many relationships a one user can have many blog posts but one particular blog post
can only be altered by one specific user.
So now this should work.
Let's refresh the page and you can see it works perfectly.
All the blog posts now have this text when it was added and by whom it was added.
So now we have this situation that we are authenticated by as John Doe and we see different blog posts
that were altered by different users.
So we should only be able to edit those that we have added ourselves and also delete only those that
we have added ourselves and not the other ones.
So we will see how to actually do that in the next lecture.
I will first show you the simplest possible way to define those outer recession constraints inside a
layer of application.